# Facilitating Interpersonal Trust With AI Message Suggestions

Platform for running interactive multi-player social experiments with AI message suggestions tuned to facilitate the development of trust between people with diverse opinions and values.

The provided code is a companion to this paper:

**Claggett, E.**, Shirado, H. "Relational AI: Facilitating Intergroup Cooperation with Socially Aware Conversational Support" *Under review.*

The paper abstract is presented below:
> Cooperation is challenging when group identities are involved. While people readily cooperate with in-group members, they struggle to build trust with out-group members. This study examines how text suggestions generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) can mitigate in-group-out-group bias and facilitate intergroup cooperation through conversations. We conducted an experiment with 482 participants who communicated with either in-group partners sharing their views or out-group partners with differing views, based on a preliminary survey. Participants received either "personal" message suggestions aligned with their own views and conversation styles or "relational" suggestions using conversation styles tailored to whether their partner was in-group or out-group.  Following the conversations, participants engaged in a cooperation game designed to measure trust behaviorally. Our results show that while personal assistance widened the cooperation gap, relational assistance significantly improved out-group cooperation to match in-group levels. We discuss design implications for integrating social awareness into AI-driven conversational support systems.


### Prerequisites

- Python
- Empirica (empirica.ly)

### Installation

Clone the repository.

### Testing

Run test.sh

### Running

Run start.sh